Add group test cases (#5)
wordpress-mobile/test-cases: test-cases/gutenberg/group.md

  
![Dimming3](../resources/group-dimming-3.png)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC008

### Breadcrumbs on FloatingToolbar is properly displayed

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Create nested structure
-   Check if each time you change selection `Breadcrumbs` show focused block title and focused block icon
-   Check if each time you change selection `Breadcrumbs` show top most parent block icon
-   Check if `Breadcrumbs` renders navigation up button

Expected look:  
![BreadcrumbsRoot](../resources/group-breadcrumbs-root.png)
  
![BreadcrumbsNested](../resources/group-breadcrumbs-nested.png)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC009

### Navigation up button works as expected

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Create nested structure
-   Select deep nested block
-   Press navigation up button on `Breadcrumb`
-   Check if each time you press navigation up button the selection moves to parent block
-   Check if border and dim styles changes accordingly

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC010

> ### Navigation down works as expected

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Navigation down works according to parent-first approach
```

### AppenderButton is rendered

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Check if `AppenderButton` is rendered
-   Add another block inside `Group` and deselect
-   Check if `AppenderButton` is align with the content

Expected look:  
![AppenderAlignment](../resources/group-appender-alignment.png)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC002

### DefaultAppender allows to open Inserter and add block outside the group

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Having `Group` block selected press on `DefaultAppender`
-   Check if the block is added outside after the `Group`

Expected look:  
![SeparatorAfter](../resources/group-outer-separator-after.png)

-   Having `Group` block selected long press on `DefaultAppender`
-   Select where you want to add block after or before
-   Check if the block is added outside after/before the `Group`

Expected look:  
![SeparatorBefore](../resources/group-outer-separator-before.png)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC003

### Deep nesting is possible (iOS only)

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Nest blocks inside multiple `Group` blocks (at least 3 levels deep)

> -   Check if app do not crashes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Check if app do not crash
```

 - Navigation arrows is not visible
 - Only selected block title and icon is visible in breadcrumbs

![PlaceholderDeepNested](../resources/group-placeholder-nest-deep.png)
 - Post title is dimmed
 - Navigation arrows is visible
 - Navigation arrows are disable depending on order in block
 - Show parent in breadcrumbs

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC006

### Nested block have proper border styling

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Nest some blocks inside
-   Check if each selected block gets solid blue border
-   Check if each first child gets dashed grey border

Expected look:  
![BorderStyling](../resources/group-border-styling.png)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC007

### Nested block have proper margins values

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Nest some blocks inside
-   Check if margins and paddings do not bounce when changing selection (exception is the trasition of the selected block connected with making space for FloatingToolbar)
-   Check if there is no weird/unexpected extra free space around blocks
-   Check the margins/paddings values

Expected look:  

> ![MarginRoot](../resources/group-margin-root.png)

Reviewer: It would be great if you put a small red lines on this pic to show where the 3pt is. no fancy tool needed, the default "Preview" too of MacOS should do it:

<img width="893" alt="Screen Shot 2020-02-17 at 20 08 47" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5032900/74674029-892a2500-51c1-11ea-83a4-1ef106f7b24e.png">

Author: I have marked the value and place of described spaces

 - Margins of `3px` left/right (between screen edge and solid border)

![MarginGroupChild](../resources/group-margin-inner-child-group.png)
 - Margins of `5px` left/right (beetwen dashed border and solid border)

![MarginChild](../resources/group-margin-child.png)
 - Margin of `6px` left/right (beetwen content and dashed border)

![MarginContent](../resources/group-margin-root-1.png)

>  - Margin of `16px` left/right

Reviewer: Do we really mean "margin" here? Since "margin" is a technical term let's use it only when we refer to a real margin. otherwise we can use "space"

Author: ok I have change wording

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Create nested structure
-   Check if each time you change selection `Breadcrumbs` show focused block title and focused block icon
-   Check if each time you change selection `Breadcrumbs` show top most parent block icon
-   Check if `Breadcrumbs` renders navigation up button

Expected look:  
![BreadcrumbsRoot](../resources/group-breadcrumbs-root.png)
  
![BreadcrumbsNested](../resources/group-breadcrumbs-nested.png)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC010

### Navigation up button works as expected

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Create nested structure
-   Select deep nested block
-   Press navigation up button on `Breadcrumb`
-   Check if each time you press navigation up button the selection moves to parent block
-   Check if border and dim styles changes accordingly

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC011

### Navigation down works as expected

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Create some nested structure ( at least 3 levels deep )
-   Clear selection
-   Press on the bottom-most block in hierarchy of added `Group`

> -   Check if the selection is redirect properly to top-most parent

Reviewer: wdym by the `bottom-most block in hierarchy `? 
I am not following how next step of pressing the bottom most block is redirecting us to `top-most parent `

Author: If you have the Group Unselected and press on Block which is on very deep level in hierarchy (in above I name it bottom-most in hierarchy). The selection always be redirected to top-most parent of this block. In this case the Group block itself. Top-most in above means the parent on the top of hierarchy tree

If you repeat the same press. The selection goes to top-most parent of same block which is also a child of selected block. In other words the logic there finds the CommonAncestor between pressed block and selected block

Reviewer: ok so basically we are trying to emphasize the parent first approach

##### TC003

### Deep nesting is possible (iOS only)

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Nest blocks inside multiple `Group` blocks (at least 3 levels deep)
-   Check if app do not crashes

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC004

### Check if Group placeholder is render on RootList

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Deselect
-   Check if you are able to see `Group` placeholder

Expected look:  
![Progress](../resources/group-placeholder-root.png)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC005

### Check if Group placeholder is render in nested structure

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Nest some `Group` inside
-   Select top-most `Group` block in hierarchy
-   Check if you are able to see `Group` placeholder of nested blocks wrapped with dashed border
-   Go down in the hierarchy observing if margins is keept (the whole UI should remain the same)
-   After selecting last `Group` you should be able to see it's `AppenderButton`

Expected look:  
![PlaceholderNestes](../resources/group-placeholder-nest-1.png)
  
![PlaceholderDeepNested](../resources/group-placeholder-nest-deep.png)

> 

Reviewer: These screenshots show the same thing, could you check?

Reviewer: if this is how it is supposed to work let's put better descriptions under the images or use markers on the images to show what we mean

Author: The images is very similar but not the same, the differences are:
1. Floating toolbar breadcrumbs shows different hierarchy
2. The title is dimmed on one image because we go with the selection on deeper level

The behaviour at this moment should looks like that. In near future we will add some indicator that inform user about changing selection ( in this case when empty nested group it's hard to notice that selection changes because the UI doesn't change)

Anyway I have added the descriptions under the images to point the differences

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC006

### Insertion point (Separator) is show in correct place in RootList

-   Open new post
-   See if "Start writing" prompt is visible
-   Press `DefaultAppender`
-   Check if `Separator` is visible right below the title block
-   Check if "Start writing" prompt is not visible

Expected look:  
![SeparatorRoot](../resources/group-separator-root.png)

-   Open new post
-   Type some text in the "Start writing" prompt
-   Press `DefaultAppender`
-   Check if `Separator` is visible right below the `Paragraph` block

Expected look:  
![SeparatorRootAfter](../resources/group-separator-after-paragraph.png)

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Long press `DefaultAppender`
-   Select where you want to add block after or before
-   Check if the `Separator` is render outside before/after the `Group`

Expected look:  
![SeparatorRootBefore](../resources/group-separator-before-paragraph.png)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC007

> ### Insertion point (Separator) is show in correct place in Group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Insertion point (Separator) is shown in correct place in Group
```

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Press group `AppenderButton ( + )`

> -   Check if the `Separator` is render instead of `AppenderButton`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Check if the `Separator` is rendered instead of `AppenderButton`
```

Expected look:  
![InnerSeparatorRoot](../resources/group-inner-separator-root.png)

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Add block inside
-   Select `Group` block
-   Press group `AppenderButton ( + )`

> -   Check if the `Separator` is render after last block in the `Group`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Check if the `Separator` is rendered after last block in the `Group`
```

Expected look:  
![InnerSeparatorAfter](../resources/group-inner-separator-after.png)

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Add block inside and keep newly added block selected
-   Press `AppenderButton ( + )`
-   Select where you want to add block after or before

> -   Check if the `Separator` is render after/before selected block in the `Group`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Check if the `Separator` is rendered after/before selected block in the `Group`
```

Expected look:  
![BorderStyling](../resources/group-border-styling.png)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC009

### Nested empty group block do not multiplicates margins

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Nest multiple empty `Group` block
-   Check if there is no extra margins applied when nested empty `Group` blocks

Expected look:  
![PlaceholderNested](../resources/group-placeholder-nest-1.png)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC010

### Nested selection cause applying dimmed style on the rest of blocks

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Create some nested structure
-   Navigate down in the hierarchy
-   Check if each time you change selection all blocks that are higher in hierarchy tree gets dimmed
-   Select `Group` block
-   Check if none block gets dimmed

Expected look:  
![Dimming1](../resources/group-dimming-1.png)
  
![Dimming2](../resources/group-dimming-2.png)
  
![Dimming3](../resources/group-dimming-3.png)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC011

> ### No extra margins applied when nesting empty group blocks

Reviewer: title and steps don't match

Author: I removed it because it should check if diming state isn't remember when you close the post. However I realise that we do not had this issue on production but only on demo app.

-   Add new post
-   Add a `Group` block
-   Create some nested structure
-   Select nested block to make some block gets dimmed
-   Close post
-   Reopen post
-   Check if there is no block beeing selected and dimmed

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC012

> ### FloatingToolbar is render when group or it's child is selected

Reviewer: let's remove this, again too basic

Author: done

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Prepare nested structure
-   Check if each time you select any block it renders `FloatingToolbar` above

Expected look:  
![FloatingToolbarRoot](../resources/group-floating-toolbar-root.png)
  
![FloatingToolbarNested](../resources/group-floating-toolbar-nested.png)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC013

### Breadcrumbs on FloatingToolbar is properly displayed

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Create nested structure
-   Check if each time you change selection `Breadcrumbs` show proper block title and icon 

> -   Check if each time you change selection `Breadcrumbs` show proper parent block

Reviewer: Let's avoid using subjective descriptions as "proper" word and instead try to use more specific words.
"parent block icon -> focused block icon + focused block title"

Reviewer: just realized, "parent block" can also be vague. "top most parent" is better

Author: ok, fixed

-   Check if `Breadcrumbs` renders navigation up button

Expected look:  
![BreadcrumbsRoot](../resources/group-breadcrumbs-root.png)
  
![BreadcrumbsNested](../resources/group-breadcrumbs-nested.png)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC014

> ### Navigation up works as expected

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Navigation up button works as expected
```

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Create nested structure
-   Select deep nested block
-   Press navigation up button on `Breadcrumb`
-   Check if each time you press navigation up button the selection moves to parent block
-   Check if border and dim styles changes accordingly

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC015

### Navigation down works as expected

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Create some nested structure ( at least 3 levels deep )
-   Clear selection
-   Press on the bottom-most block in hierarchy of added `Group`
-   Check if the selection is redirect properly to top-most parent
-   Repeat - press on the bottom-most block in hierarchy of added `Group`
-   Check if each time you press nested block you move selection one level down (block which gets selection should be common ancestor with previously selected block and pressed block)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC016

> ### Navigation in hierarchy works as expected

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Navigation up by tapping works as expected
```

> ### Navigation in hierarchy works as expected

Reviewer: OR:

```suggestion
### Cross navigation in between blocks works as expected
```

Author: Fixed, do you think we might need a GIF to present some behaviour of the navigation ?

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Create some nested structure ( at least 3 levels deep )
-   Select nested block
-   Having nested block selected try to select block which is higher in the hierarchy (one, two and more levels above)
-   Check if that block gets selected after press

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC017

> ### Mover arrows changes the order of blocks in group

Reviewer: let's remove, too basic

Author: removed

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Create nested structure
-   Check if using mover arrows change the order of blocks in `Group` as expected 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC018

### Delete button removes the block from group and group block

> 

Reviewer: let's remove, too basic

Author: removed

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Create nested structure
-   Selecting nested blocks
-   Check if `Delete` button removes the selected block
 
-   Select `Group`
-   Check if `Delete` button removes the whole `Group` and it's children

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC019

### Ungroup button works as expected

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Add blocks to `Group`
-   Select `Group` block

> -   Press `Ungroup` button on the `MobileToolbar`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Press `Ungroup` button on the block toolbar
```

> -   Check if `Group` block was delete and all of it's child are able to select directly after press

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Check if `Group` block was deleted and each child block can now be selected directly
```

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC020

> ### New block added to group gets focus immedately

Reviewer: we can remove this, already a standard behavior

Author: don

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Add new block through `DefaultAppender`
-   Check if block gets focus after add
-   Add new block through `AppenderButton`
-   Check if block gets focus after add

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC021

### Check if in DarkMode all components gets proper colors (iOS)

-   Add a `Group` block
-   Create nested structure
-   Switch to DarkMode (iOS)

> -   Check if all components switch it's color schema to dark

Reviewer: Could you please add visuals?

Author: sure

# Group Block - Test Cases

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC001

### Group block is visible in Inserter menu

-   CLick `AppenderButton ( + )`
-   Check if the `Group` block is visible
-   Check if you are able to press and add `Group` block

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC002

### Group block after add is selected, empty and renders AppenderButton inside

-   Add a `Group` block 
-   Check if `Group` block is selected
-   Check if `Group` block is empty and shows only `AppenderButton`

Expected look:
 <<<SCREENSHOT>>
  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC003

> ### AppenderButton is render properly

Reviewer: Sorry if I am missing sth but I am not seeing this is fixed and the convo is marked as resolved?

> ### AppenderButton is render properly

Author: Sorry I didn't catch that

-   Add a `Group` block 
-   Check if `AppenderButton` renders properly
-   Check if `AppenderButton` is align with the content

Expected look:

>  <<<SCREENSHOT>>

Author: Yes I have update the PR with the image but it seems you have started review the old version before I have update the screens

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC004

### Group AppenderButton allows to open Inserter and add new block to group

-   Add a `Group` block 
-   Check if you are able to open `Inserter` menu by press on `AppenderButton` inside `Group`
-   Check if the block is added inside the `Group` before the `AppenderButton`
-   Select a `Group` block once again
-   Check if you are able to add another block
-   Check if the block is added inside the `Group` before the `AppenderButton`

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC005

> ### DefaultAppender allows to open Inserter and add block outside the group

Author: I have add this because there was some regression when changing the appender/separator logic which affects the behaviour of Default Appender

I thought it is nice to check if  the DefaulAppender works as well

> ### DefaultAppender allows to open Inserter and add block outside the group

Author: Should we delete this one ?

> ### DefaultAppender allows to open Inserter and add block outside the group

Reviewer: sorry I had missed this one. yes I think we should better remove. it is a pretty intuitive functionality and one will be able to notice if sth is odd while doing other tests

> ### DefaultAppender allows to open Inserter and add block outside the group

Author: ok, removed

-   Check if the block is added outside after the `Group`

<br />

-   Having `Group` block selected long press on `DefaultAppender`
-   Select where you want to add block after or before
-   Check if the block is added outside after/before the `Group`

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC006

### DefaultAppender allows to open Inserter and add block inside the group

-   Add a `Group` block 
-   Add block inside the `Group`
-   Having newly added block selected press on `DefaultAppender`
-   Check if the block is added inside the `Group` after the selected block

<br />

-   Having newly added block selected long press on `DefaultAppender`
-   Select where you want to add block after or before
-   Check if the block is added inside the `Group` after/before the selected block

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC007

### Deep nesting is possible

-   Add a `Group` block 
-   Nest blocks inside multiple `Group` blocks (at least 3 levels deep)
-   Check if app do not crashes

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC008

> ### Check if Group placeholder is render on RootList

Author: It's because placeholder can have different style in RootList and in nested structure and in consequence broke the layout..

As far as i understand the plan r in the future is to remove the placeholder in nested structure to avoid render double dashed border so one of this test becomes to check if we see single dashed border, WDYT ?

> ### Check if Group placeholder is render on RootList

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Check if Group placeholder is visible for the unselected state
```

> ### Check if Group placeholder is render on RootList

Reviewer: ok let's keep this one but update the title ☝️

-   Add a `Group` block 
-   Deselect
-   Check if you are able to see `Group` placeholder

Expected look:
 << SCREENSHOT >>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC009

### Check if Group placeholder is render in nested structure

-   Add a `Group` block 
-   Nest some `Group` inside
-   Select top-most `Group` block in hierarchy
-   Check if you are able to see `Group` placeholder of nested blocks wrapped with dashed border

> -   Go down in the hierarchy observing if margins is keept (the whole UI should remain the same)

Author: ok, this one is difficult to explain because if you add multiple empty groups(at least 4levels deep) and start to navigate-dow you will not see any changes when selecting 3 and 4 level. The UI look is exactly the same it that case

> -   Go down in the hierarchy observing if margins is keept (the whole UI should remain the same)

Reviewer: I see the images attached but we need to put some marks on our visuals to show which distance we want to emphasize otherwise someone who is not familiar with this feature won't understand what you mean.

> -   Go down in the hierarchy observing if margins is keept (the whole UI should remain the same)

Author: I think after we extract margins to separate TC we can limit this one to check if placeholder is rendered. 

Having proper margins in TC007 we should also cover "margins is kept" case from this TC

-   After selecting last `Group` you should be able to see it's `AppenderButton`

Expected look:
 << SCREENSHOT >>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC010

> ### Insertion point (Separator) is show in correct place in RootList

Author: according to this [answer](https://github.com/wordpress-mobile/test-cases/pull/5#discussion_r379418331)we might consider to keep it 

Group is based on the same logic that RootList so I think in that case we can have some regression when implementing/changing logic for Group block

> ### Insertion point (Separator) is show in correct place in RootList

Reviewer: OK I understand, you've got a point. But there's also another reason to remove this. This is a very basic test case. One would be able to notice something odd behavior about RootView's inserter without reading these steps. Let's use here more for documenting un-intuitive test cases.

-   Open new post
-   See if "Start writing" prompt is visible
-   Press `DefaultAppender`
-   Check if `Separator` is visible right below the title block
-   Check if "Start writing" prompt is not visible

<br />

-   Open new post
-   Type some text in the "Start writing" prompt
-   Press `DefaultAppender`
-   Check if `Separator` is visible right below the `Paragraph` block

<br />

-   Add a `Group` block 
-   Long press `DefaultAppender`
-   Select where you want to add block after or before
-   Check if the `Separator` is render outside before/after the `Group`

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC011

### Insertion point (Separator) is show in correct place in Group

-   Add a `Group` block 
-   Add block inside
-   Select `Group` block
-   Press group `AppenderButton ( + )`
-   Check if the `Separator` is render after last block in the `Group`

<br />

-   Add a `Group` block 
-   Add block inside and keep newly added block selected
-   Press `AppenderButton ( + )`

> -   Select where you want to add block after or before

Author: in latest update it is:

```
-   Long press `DefaultAppender`
-   Select where you want to add block after or before
```

-   Check if the `Separator` is render after/before selected block in the `Group`

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC012

> ### Nested block have proper border styling

Author: in recent changes it is already added

-   Add a `Group` block 
-   Nest some blocks inside
-   Check if each selected block gets solid blue border
-   Check if each first child gets dashed grey border
-   Check if margins and paddings do not bounce when changing selection (exception is the trasition of the selected block connected with making space for FloatingToolbar)

> -   Check if there is no weird/unexpected extra free space around blocks

Author: It will be difficult to separate margins and padding without  going to debbuger inspector and check exact values and that's not the point here.

We care about if total spaces around block  in selected vs deselected state are constants. That was my intention writing this

> -   Check if there is no weird/unexpected extra free space around blocks

Reviewer: We don't have to distinguish margins from paddings in the visuals, it is an implementation detail. 
But we should show 2 things:

1. exactly which space we refer to, otherwise it is hard to understand
2. how much space we expect there to be

> -   Check if there is no weird/unexpected extra free space around blocks

Author: I have update this one

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

##### TC013

> ### Nested empty group block do not multiplicates margins

Author: There is one case that group has more complex structure

But if something goes wrong with margins we fail  in `Nested block have proper border styling`

> ### Nested empty group block do not multiplicates margins

Reviewer: ok then no need to keep this case

> ### Nested empty group block do not multiplicates margins

Author: test case removed

##### TC001

### AppenderButton is render properly

-   Add a `Group` block

> -   Check if `AppenderButton` rendered

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Check if `AppenderButton` is rendered
```

-   Add another block inside `Group` and deselect

> -   Check if `AppenderButton` is align with the content

Reviewer: >`AppenderButton` is align with the content 

Please add a visual to describe how it looks

Reviewer: ignore, I clearly missed it
